There are three ways that we can create a dashboard within
GA. We can start with a Blank Canvas.
We can use a Starter Dashboard,
or we can import from the Solutions Gallery.
We can look at the Solutions Gallery a little bit later.
But for now, let's use a Starter Dashboard.
We're in the Google merchandise store account.
Under customization dashboards, we see that
there are several shared dashboards already created within the view.
We'll also talk about shared dashboards coming up.
For now, we'll click Create.
Blank Canvas is selected by default and it can't be a great exercise to
build a dashboard from a Blank Canvas choosing all of the widgets yourself.
But for now, we'll select Starter Dashboard,
will name it Eric Demo Dashboard.
Click Create Dashboard.
The dashboard functionality in GA is very flexible
and very straightforward in terms of the types of data that you can add.
So we won't go through an exhaustive list of
every type of data and widget that we could add to a dashboard.
But let's look at one example.
Add widget, we can add Standard widgets and we can also add Real-time widgets.
Let's select a Counter widget showing active users as the metric.
Active users in the real-time reports mean any user that's interacted,
sending a hit within the last five minutes.
Let's group by country as a dimension.
We could also add a filter if we want it to within the widget.
We could link to a GA report within the view from the dashboard.
I'll select Audience/Geo/Location, save.
There we have our active users real-time widget broken down by country.
As far as configuring the look and feel of the dashboard goes in GA,
we don't have lots of options.
Scott will walk us through
the formatting flexibility in Data Studio in an upcoming lesson.
Within the GA dashboards,
we do have the option to customize the layout.That's like 30 percent,
70 percent, and now we change the layout of the dashboard.
So not lots of options for customizing the look and feel of the dashboard,
but lots of options for displaying the Google Analytics data that way we want.
As another comparison with Data Studio,
Google Analytics dashboards just pull in
Google Analytics data or any other data that we've incorporated into GA such
as AdWords data or
Google Search console data or we're using Google Analytics 360 double-click data.
But the Google Analytics dashboards are basically about the Google Analytics dataset.
When Scott walks us through Data Studio,
we'll also see the ability to add
many different types of datasets to Data Studio dashboards.
Just as a few quick notes on limits,
there can be 50 shared dashboards per view.
Again, we'll talk about sharing dashboards coming up.
We can each create 20 private dashboards per view.
We can add a total of 12 widgets per dashboard.